标题：第33条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
讲座预告 | Dr. Carmel Mevorach学术讲座
心理学院　2025/5/19 9:40:00
（钟沛基 2022280095）
讲座题目：
A Dimensional approach to neurodivergence in attention
control: identifying functional and structural signatures of atypical attention
讲座时间：
2025
年
5
月
26
日下午
15
：
00
讲座地点：
深圳大学沧海校区致理楼
C
座
L3-1201
主讲人：
Dr Carmel Mevorach
讲座简介：
Attention control and specifically distractor
suppression is a fundamental process that is called upon in a variety of
scenarios. In fact, different scenarios might also depend on our inherent
‘inability’ to suppress distractors (imagine crossing the road while focusing
on your phone…) or our ability to utilise different modes of attention control
(e.g., static vs. dynamic). It is therefore not surprising that accumulating evidence
points to attention control atypicality in a variety of neurodivergent conditions
such as ADHD, autism and even psychosis (and the broader spectrum of their
traits in neurotypical participants). Nevertheless, previous reports have been
mixed in the direction of these effects, highlighting scenarios of both
beneficial and detrimental outcomes (using a categorical approach to these
conditions). Recent work in my lab attempts to delineate the specific effect autism,
ADHD and psychosis tendencies have on attention control and distractor
suppression. Using a combination of behavioural, brain imaging, and brain
stimulation studies our findings support a more nuanced understanding of the
attention control profile associated with these conditions. Importantly, we
show that the degree each of these conditions is expressed in an individual is
linked with performance and with signatures of both brain function and
structure. This strongly supports the notion of neurodivergent conditions as
dimensions that drive the attention control system in a specific direction.
主讲人简介：
Associate Professor in Cognitive Neuroscience, Centre
for Human Brain Health
，
The School of Psychology, University of
Birmingham. Carmel completed his undergraduate degree in psychology and
computer sciences at Tel Aviv University, Israel. He later moved on to develop
a new computerised assessment and training batteries for children and adults
with ADHD following which he arrived at Birmingham to study for a Ph.D. with
Professor Glyn Humphreys investigating mechanisms of salience-based selection.
He then continued his training in cognitive neuroscience methods in a couple of
post-doc positions (ESRC, MRC) before taking up a lectureship position in 2010
becoming an associate professor in 2020. His lab – Cognitive Neuroscience
of Atypical Attention, utilises a combination of methodologies (including brain
imaging, brain stimulation, and individual differences) to understand brain mechanisms
underlying atypical attention control in a variety of contexts. Work in the lab
also focuses on translational research into developing attention control,
specifically in neurodivergent individuals.
欢迎感兴趣的师生参加！
深圳大学心理学院
撰稿：俎亚男　审核：张丽

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=548467
