标题：第123条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】 Advances in Semantic Communication Technology
电子与信息工程学院　2024/12/24 16:36:00
（钟沛基 2022280095）
主讲嘉宾：
Dr. Qi He,
 University of Electronic Science and Technology of China
邀 请 人：冯大权
教授
地  点： 致真楼
 901
时  间：
12
月
25
日
 9:00 am
Title:
Advances in Semantic Communication Technology
ABSTRACT:
In recent years, semantic communication technology, which aims to achieve
the effective transmission of semantic information, has become a focal point of
academic research. Unlike traditional communication technologies that focus on
error-free transmission at the bit-level symbol, semantic communication does
not demand an exact match between the binary sequences received at the receiver
and those sent from the transmitter. Instead, it requires that the semantic
information recovered by the receiver aligns with the semantic content transmitted
by the sender. By relaxing the stringent error requirements for information
transmission, semantic communication technology is poised to overcome the
transmission bottlenecks of current communication systems and is emerging as a
competitive candidate for 6G technology.
BIO:
Dr.
Qi He
 received the B.S. and M.S. degrees in
communication engineering from the University of Electronic Science and
Technology of China (UESTC), Chengdu, China, in 2008 and 2011, respectively,
where he is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree in communication and
information systems with the National Key Laboratory of Science and Technology
on Communications. He was with Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., from 2011 to
2013., His current research interests include wireless communications and
networking, optimization theory, and artificial intelligence.
Dr. Yao
Sun
, University of Glasgow
Title:
Semantic Communication in High-Data-Rate Wireless Networks
ABSTRACT:
To cope with the
ever-increasing request for higher data rates, it is foreseeable that available
resources like spectrum or energy will gradually become scarce in traditional
communication networks. Combined with the almost insurmountable Shannon limit,
these destined bottlenecks are, therefore, motivating us to hunt for bold
changes in the new design of future networks, i.e., making a paradigm shift
from bit-based traditional communication to context-based semantic
communication. This talk will first introduce the basis of semantic
communications and its superiorities in future wireless communication systems.
Then, several technical problems in semantic communication systems will be
investigated. Last, some future research directions along with challenges
should be discussed in this talk.
BIO:
Dr.
Yao Sun (Senior Member, IEEE) is
currently a Lecturer with the James Watt School of Engineering, University of
Glasgow, Glasgow, U.K. He has extensive research experience in the wireless
communication area. His research interests include intelligent wireless
networking, semantic communications, blockchain systems, and resource
management in next-generation mobile networks. He has served as a TPC Member
for several international flagship conferences, including ICC 2022, VTC Spring
2022, GLOBECOM 2020, WCNC 2019, and ICCT 2019. He has won the IEEE
Communication Society of TAOS Best Paper Award in the 2019 ICC. He has served
as the TPC Chair for UCET 2021. He has been the guest editor for special issues
of several international journals.
Dr. Lei
Luo
, Chongqing University of Posts and
Telecommunications
Title:
Panoramic Video Coding Based on Spherical Distortion with Spatio-Temporal Dependency
ABSTRACT:
Immersive communication is an important technical
support for the realization of the metaverse, where users can watch 360-degree
panoramic videos and interact with the virtual world. To ensure quality of
service (QoS), it is necessary to transmit high-resolution panoramic video
content, which causes panoramic video to consume a large amount of
communication bandwidth. Therefore, improving the compression efficiency of
panoramic video has become an urgent need. The panoramic video content seen by
the viewer has the characteristics of spherical distribution, while the
panoramic video is encoded using the ordinary planar video coding strategy,
which makes the compression distortion cannot match the spherical distortion
perceived by the viewer, thus reducing the efficiency of panoramic video
coding. In addition, independent rate-distortion optimization of a single
panoramic video frame can only achieve suboptimal coding efficiency, because it
ignores the distortion propagation caused by inter-frame prediction of video
coding. Therefore, we propose a spatio-temporal dependent spherical distortion
model, and apply the model to the rate-distortion optimization and rate control
of panoramic video coding, which significantly improves the efficiency of
panoramic video coding.
BIO:
Dr. Lei Luo (Member, IEEE) received the B.S. and
Ph.D. degrees from Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China, in 2008 and 2013,
respectively. He is currently an Associate Professor at the School of
Communications and Information Engineering, Chongqing University of Posts and
Telecommunications, Chongqing, China. His research interests include video
coding and transmission, 3-D video processing, and video analysis.
Dr. Jincheng
Dai, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications
Title:
Generative Intelligent Encoding Transmission
ABSTRACT:
At present, generative Artificial Intelligence
(GenAI) technology represented by large language models and diffusion models is
a research hotspot in academia and industry. This report focuses on how generative
AI can enable the innovation of coding and transmission technology in wireless
communication. In this report, a new paradigm of generative coding and
transmission with the characteristics of resilience and intelligence will be
introduced, which can provide a stable and high-quality end-to-end service in a
dynamic wireless channel environment. This report will demonstrate the
multidimensional advantages and potential of this paradigm through a new
perspective that leverages the received signal as a natural fine-grained
condition to guide Bayesian generative modeling and build a new receiver
architecture that enables future intelligent and simple end-to-end wireless
transmission systems.
BIO:
Dr. Jincheng Dai received a B.S. and Ph.D.
degree from the Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications (BUPT),
Beijing, China, in 2014 and 2019. He is currently working with the Key
Laboratory of Universal Wireless Communications, Ministry of Education, Beijing
University of Posts and Telecommunications. His research focuses on semantic
communications, source and channel coding, machine learning for communications.
                                                                                                                                                                       电子与信息工程学院
2024年12月24日
撰稿：高志杰　审核：周浩江
（更新于2024/12/24 16:39:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=539361
