标题：第124条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Intelligent Synchronization Techniques for Effective Digital Twin Construction
电子与信息工程学院　2024/12/23 15:45:00
（钟沛基 2022280095）
主讲嘉宾
：
Dr.
Pengyi Jia
 ,Western University
邀  请 人
：
冯大权 教授
时     间：
24号上午10:00
地      点
：
致真楼L6-901
Abstract:
Achieving holistic
characterization of large-scale Internet of Things (IoT)
systems through digital twin
modeling is crucial for optimizing system operations. However, time
misalignment among distributed data inputs can significantly undermine the
accuracy of digital twin models. Therefore, synchronizing large-scale data
collection is fundamental to ensuring precise digital twin development. Conventional
synchronization methods, which rely on routine
"observing-and-calibrating" over the Internet, suffer from
unpredictable accuracy, low efficiency, and a lack of contextual awareness, all
of which hinder modeling performance. This presentation will begin with an
introduction to digital twins and their applications, highlighting the needs
for time synchronization in supporting accurate digital twin construction. It
will then provide an intelligent and low-overhead synchronization solution to
support digital twin modeling. A novel digital twin framework will be
introduced, leveraging end-to-end synchronization and multi-attribute
resampling for accurate and efficient modeling in industrial IoT systems.
The discussion will conclude
by showcasing the application of synchronized digital twins in orchestrating 6G
heterogeneous networks, demonstrating their potential to enhance network
performance and operational effectiveness.
Speaker:
  Dr.
Pengyi
Jia received his M.Eng. and Ph.D. degrees from the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering, Western University, London, ON, Canada, in 2016 and 2021,
respectively. He is currently a Postdoctoral Associate at Western University.
His research interests include intelligent network
synchronization, digital twin, and machine learning, as well as their
applications in vertical IoT systems and wireless networks. One focus of his
recent research is to develop goal-oriented digital twin paradigms for
optimized network operation and service provisioning by exploring
spatial-temporal correlations behind the massive sampling data.
Dr. Jia has been involved in organizing IEEE CCECE
2021 and served as a TPC member for many conferences. He is serving as the Vice
Chair of ComSoc Chapter in IEEE London Section.
电子与信息工程学院
2024年12月23日
撰稿：高志杰　审核：周浩江
（更新于2024/12/23 15:48:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=539235
