标题：第125条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Functionalized Ionic Liquids for Biocatalysis and Biomass Utilization + Introduction of Bioproducts and Biosystems
生命与海洋科学学院　2024/12/23 14:48:00
（钟沛基 2022280095）
报告题目：
Functionalized Ionic Liquids for Biocatalysis and Biomass Utilization
+ Introduction of Bioproducts and Biosystems Engineering at University of Minnesota
主讲嘉宾：
Hua Zhao,
Professor
报告主持：
杨缜
教授
报告时间：
2024
年
1
2
月
26
日（星期
四
）
上午
9
：
30
报告地点：深圳大学丽湖校区守慧楼
A6-501
Abstract:
Biocatalysis has been known for thousands of years, particularly in fermentation processes for baking and brewing businesses. In modern chemical industries, enzyme-catalyzed reactions are becoming a rapidly growing field for the preparation of pharmaceutical intermediates, biofuels, and new materials. However, many of these enzymatic reactions are not favored in aqueous environments for a number of reasons such as substrate solubility, selectivity, and side reactions. Common organic solvents are not always ideal choices of non-aqueous media for biocatalytic applications due to their poor biocompatibility, toxicity, and flammability, etc. Ionic liquids, made of ions with low melting points, are a unique type of non-volatile solvents that can be structurally tailored to be compatible with enzymes. Enzymes behave differently in aqueous ionic liquids and in neat/concentrated ionic liquids. Our research focuses on functionalized ionic liquids for cellulosic biomass treatment followed by enzymatic saccharification, for enzymatic synthesis of biosurfactants, for enzymatic ring-opening polymerization (ROP) of
l
-lactide and ε-caprolactone, and for enzymatic C-C bond formations.
An overview is given for the Department of Bioproducts and Biosystems Engineering at University of Minnesota in terms of its undergraduate and graduate programs, research thrusts, and various collaboration and exchange opportunities.
主讲嘉宾简介
:
赵华博士曾就读于天津大学，相继获得化学学士和化学工程硕士学位。在天津大学短暂留校任教后，他赴美于新泽西理工学院
(New Jersey Institute of Technology)
攻读化学工程博士学位；
2
002
年获得博士学位后，赵博士在新泽西州的罗格斯大学（
R
utgers University
）从事食品科学和包装材料的博士后研究工作。自
2
004
年以来，赵博士在美国几所高校从事教学，科研和管理工作；近十年来，他一直在几所高校担任系主任职务。目前，赵华博士在明尼苏达大学
(University of Minnesota)
的生物制品和生物系统工程系
(Bioproducts and Biosystems Engineering)
担任教授和系主任之职。他的学术成就曾多次获奖，包括
Camille and Henry Dreyfus
基金会的
Henry Dreyfus Teacher-Scholar
奖，三篇文章获得的
Elsevier
最佳引用奖，以及北科罗拉多大学颁发的科研资助奖
(Outstanding Achievement in Sponsored Programs Award)
和学者奖
(
College Scholar Award)
。赵博士的研究领域主要集中在生物催化和绿色溶剂应用于可降解材料的制备，可再生能源的生产，药物分子的合成，燃油的脱硫，
PFAS
的酶降解，以及二氧化碳的捕获和生物转化，等等。他的研究课题获得美国多家科研机构在资助，包括国家科学基金会和国家健康研究所等等；他的研究团队在国际期刊和专著里发表九十多篇学术论文。他的科研理念是可持续性，可再生性，和可生物降解性。
欢迎感兴趣的师生与会交流！
生命与海洋科学学院
2024年12月23日
撰稿：张榕榕　审核：谢宁

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=539222
