标题：第135条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Presentation Attack via Face-Spoofing
电子与信息工程学院　2024/12/17 11:09:00
（钟沛基 2022280095）
主讲嘉宾
：
Professor Alex Kot， Nanyang Technological University
邀 请 人
：   陈昌盛 副教授
地    点
 ：   致信楼N723
时   间 :
      12月30日 10 am
摘要
:
Face recognition has become a widely
adopted biometric for convenient identity verification. However, its
application is compromised by presentation attacks, a significant security
threat. Face presentation attack detection (PAD) serves as a critical
anti-spoofing measure, distinguishing genuine attempts from spoofed ones to
secure face recognition systems. Despite the effectiveness of current methods
in intra-domain testing, these methods often struggle in new target domains. In
this talk, we review existing approaches and introduce our recent work on
unsupervised domain adaptation for face anti-spoofing. We also propose an
asymmetric modality translation technique to enhance generalization in face
PAD. Additionally, our one-class knowledge distillation approach leverages only
bona fide examples, enabling efficient fine-tuning in target domains. Lastly,
we present a rehearsal-free, domain-continual face anti-spoofing strategy that
allows a pre-trained model to adapt to continuous domain-specific challenges
without requiring previous domain data.
Furthermore, as the former Vice Dean
of School of EEE and former Associate Dean of the College of Engineering at NTU,
Prof. Kot discuss the skill sets and strategies required for applying to
overseas PhD positions. Students are welcome to raise any related questions.
报告人简介：
Professor Alex Kot has been with
Nanyang Technological University (NTU), Singapore, since 1991, amassing over 30
years of research and academic experience. He has published more than 400
technical papers in biometrics recognition, authentication, image forensics,
machine learning, computer vision, and AI. At NTU, he has held numerous
leadership roles, including Head of Division, Vice Dean of the School of EEE,
and Associate Dean of the College of Engineering. Since 2012, Professor Kot has
served as the Director of the ROSE (Rapid-Rich Object SEarch) Lab, and since
2015, he has also directed the NTU-PKU Joint Research Institute (JRI). Over
this period, he has led and supported numerous international, national, and
industry-funded projects totalling over SGD 21 million. Key funding includes a
SGD 10 million grant from Singapore's National Research Foundation (NRF) for the
ROSE Lab.
Professor Kot has contributed
extensively to IEEE, serving as an Associate Editor for multiple IEEE
Transactions, including IEEE TSP, IMM, TCSVT, TCAS-I & II, TIP, SPM, SPL,
JSTSP, JASP, TIFS, among others. He has been a member of several IEEE Technical
Committees within SPS and CASS. Additionally, he served as General Co-Chair for
the 2004 IEEE International Conference on Image Processing and was a Vice
President in the IEEE Signal Processing Society. His accolades include NTU’s
Best Teacher of the Year Award, the Microsoft MSRA Award, and co-authoring
several award-winning papers. He was named an IEEE CAS Distinguished Lecturer
and IEEE SPS Distinguished Lecturer and has served on the IEEE Fellow Election
Committee. Professor Kot is a Life Fellow of IEEE and a Fellow of the Academy
of Engineering, Singapore.
电子与信息工程学院
2024年12月17日
撰稿：高志杰　审核：周浩江
（更新于2024/12/17 14:33:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=538926
