标题：第147条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【深圳大学机电与控制工程学院40周年院庆学术报告第31场】学术讲座：A complex systems perspective of nutrition
机电与控制工程学院　2024/12/12 10:14:00
（钟沛基 2022280095）
讲座题目
：
A complex systems perspective of
nutrition
演讲嘉宾
：
Alberto Aleta
教授
讲座时间
：
12
月
12
日（星期四）
 17
：
00
讲座地点
：深圳大学沧海校区致信楼
S630B
会议室
邀
请
人
：王向荣
特聘副研究员
讲座内容简介：
Humanity is facing a triple dilemma: to produce more food, ensure
its nutritional adequacy, and avoid the unjustified expansion of cultivated
lands at the expense of the native environment. But these complex issues cannot
be solved in isolation. This talk is a summary of the steps we have taken to
tackle this problem from a complex systems perspective, accounting for
trade-offs and synergies that cannot emerge if studied in isolation. The links
between social and environmental dynamics are complex and vary substantially
from place to place and through time. Because of constraints in data
availability, analytical methods, and a lack of understanding of how social and
environmental objectives interact, there is no workable model that allows the
optimization of food production while minimizing environmental and societal
costs. Similarly, understanding the population’s dietary patterns and their
impact on health requires many different sources of information that interact
with each other. Nutritional epidemiology faces enormous challenges posed by
measurement error and related consequences such as unknown confounders, and the
inability to address complex exposures.
Throughout this talk, we will focus on
vegetable oils as a case study. We will discuss a large array of problems,
ranging from our current knowledge of food composition and its data gaps, the
public debate on vegetable oils in social media, the controversial role of
Nutri-score, or the environmental and socio-economic impacts of palm oil
production in Indonesia. All these systems, and many others, interact with each
other and play a major role in the pursuit of the Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs), including reducing poverty, inequality, and hunger, improving health
and education, while also meeting climate, biodiversity, and ecosystem goals.
演讲嘉宾简介：
Prof. Alberto Aletá is a Spanish physicist
and data scientist expert on the field of Complex Systems. He is mostly known
for his work on epidemic modelling, specially during the Covid-19 pandemic.
However, his interests are very interdisciplinary, with contributions in fields
like game theory, sustainable nutrition and social dynamics. Alberto’s work is
characterised by the use of data driven approaches to model dynamical systems
and a quest for unraveling the causal mechanisms behind the dynamics observed.
His works often rely on the use of agent-based models, network science,
higher-order networks and multivariate statistics. Alberto obtained his PhD in
Physics (Cum Laude) from the Universidad of Zaragoza in 2019 and then he did a
postdoc stay at ISI Foundation (Torino, Italy) until 2022. Recently he has been
granted a Ramón y Cajal fellowship and is currently working at the Instituto
Universitario de Investigación de Biocomputación y Física de Sistemas Complejos
(BIFI).
欢迎大家参加！
撰稿：王向荣　审核：马将、郑纯
（更新于2024/12/12 10:20:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=538602
