标题：第273条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Sintered Silver as Die-Attach Materials in Electronics Packaging
电子与信息工程学院　2024/9/18 10:41:00
（钟沛基 2022280095）
报 告  人：
Kim S. Siow，
National University of Malaysia
邀  请 人：黄双武  教授
时    间  ：9月23日，上午10：00-12：00
地   点  ：致信楼N710
报告摘要：
  This talk
will explore the intersection of patent analysis and sintered metal technology
for die-bonding in electronics packaging, leveraging advanced AI tools and TRIZ
methodologies. We will begin with an introduction to patents, covering how to
read and analyze key sections such as claims and detailed descriptions, which
are crucial for understanding the legal and technical scope of innovations. The
presentation will then demonstrate the use of a proprietary Large Language
Model (LLM) via app.amplified.ai to analyze patents related to silver and
copper paste formulations, identifying six key clusters of sintered bonding
technologies. By mapping interconnections among patents and applying TRIZ's
Trends of Engineering System Evolution, we will uncover significant patents,
predict emerging trends, and identify opportunities for innovation in sintered
technology, particularly in enhancing thermal management, mechanical integrity,
and connection interfaces in power modules.
个人简介：
Kim S. Siow is a Senior Research
Fellow and Associate Professor at the Institute of Microengineering and
Nanoelectronics, National University of Malaysia (UKM). His research focuses on
sintered silver bonding, plasma surface modification and TRIZ-related issues.
He has held various roles, including materials engineer at Infineon
Technologies and On Semiconductor, Research Engineer at the National University
of Singapore, and Technology Transfer Officer at A*STAR in Singapore. He is
actively involved in the IEEE community, contributing to international
conferences. Kim holds a PhD in Engineering from the University of South
Australia, a Master of Applied Science and Bachelor of Applied Science (Materials
Engineering) from Nanyang Technological University, and a Master of Laws in
Intellectual Property from the University of Turin-WIPO. He is also a certified
Project Management Professional (PMP®) and a Level 3 MATRiZ Practitioner,
blending technical expertise with intellectual property law.
电子与信息工程学院
2024年9月18日
撰稿：高志杰　审核：周浩江
（更新于2024/9/18 10:45:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=530643
