标题：第291条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Advancements in Multimodal Driver Distraction Detection Systems: A Systematic Review and Deployment Analysis
电子与信息工程学院　2024/8/26 14:32:00
（钟沛基 2022280095）
嘉 宾 ：
Dr. Y.M. Tang
, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
邀请人：
张勇
教授
时 间 ：
202
4
年
8
月
27
日
9
：
3
0
地 点 ：
深圳大学汇星楼
150
2
摘要：
By
comprehensively reviewing the development of multimodal driver distraction
detection systems and providing an in-depth analysis of key components and
deployment considerations, we fill a gap in recent review articles on multimodal
approaches and deployment analysis. By searching mainstream databases for 877
scientific papers from the last 10 years, 99
 papers
were screened for systematic summarization using inclusion and exclusion
criteria. We focus on applications of visual, physiological, and vehicular
sensors, including their strengths and limitations in capturing driver
behavior, and propose new sensor classification methods based on commonly used
sensor combinations. In addition, we delve into various multimodal data sources,
such as visual, vehicular, and physiological signals, to examine the validity
of multimodal data, as well as summarize the application of different feature
fusion techniques and classification and recognition algorithms for multimodal
distracted driving detection. We also analyze the problems that may be
encountered when deploying a multimodal distracted driving detection system,
considering practical factors such as cost, computational resources, and
real-time processing capabilities. We also summarized that driver distraction
is associated with various environmental factors such as weather, living area,
and traffic section. These works provide important references and guidance for
further improving the driver distraction detection system, which is expected to
have a positive impact on improving driving safety and comfort.
嘉宾个人简介：
Dr. YM Tang
 received his B.Eng. and
M.Phil. from CUHK. He was awarded a Ph.D. degree from the same university.
Currently, he is a Senior Teaching Fellow in the Department of Industrial and
Systems Engineering, PolyU. Dr. Tang is the Lab-in-charge of Integrated Product
Design (IPD) in the department. His research interests include virtual reality
(VR)/ mixed reality (MR), artificial intelligence (AI), blockchain technology,
digital twin, sustainable technology in industry 4.0 and healthcare
applications. Dr. Tang has published over 10 books/ book chapters and over 60
renowned journal articles.
电子与信息工程学院
2024年8月26日
撰稿：高志杰　审核：周浩江

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=528619
