标题：第313条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Construction and Application of Power Safety Knowledge Graph Based on Accident Events
电子与信息工程学院　2024/7/9 15:35:00
（钟沛基 2022280095）
嘉  宾：
Dr. Y.M. Tang
, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
邀 请人：
张勇
教授
时  间：
202
4
年
7
月
13
日
17
：
00
地  点：
深圳大学汇星楼
150
2
摘要：
Under
the background of electric power safety production, the frequent occurrence of
electric power accidents not only causes huge loss of life and property to the
employees of electric power production, but also poses a serious threat to the
stable operation of electric power system. In order to effectively prevent the
occurrence of accidents, it is very important to analyze the causes of
accidents deeply. However, due to the lack of structured processing of
traditional accident data, it is difficult to support the in-depth cause
analysis and the formulation of prevention strategies. In view of this, this presentation
and workshop will aim to how to build a knowledge graph based on power accident
events, which aims to transform unstructured accident event data into
structured knowledge that can be calculated and queried, and assist accident
prevention through intelligent analysis. Therefore, this presentation will
introduce the relevant methods of deep learning to build the power safety
knowledge graph, conducts in-depth research and analysis on the named entity
recognition model and relationship extraction model involved in the
construction of the power safety knowledge graph, and correlates the knowledge
of related fields to build the power safety knowledge graph.
嘉宾个人简介：
Dr. YM Tang
 received his B.Eng. and
M.Phil. from CUHK. He was awarded a Ph.D. degree from the same university.
Currently, he is a Senior Teaching Fellow in the Department of Industrial and
Systems Engineering, PolyU. Dr. Tang is the Lab-in-charge of Integrated Product
Design (IPD) in the department. His research interests include virtual reality
(VR)/ mixed reality (MR), artificial intelligence (AI), blockchain technology,
digital twin, sustainable technology in industry 4.0 and healthcare
applications. Dr. Tang has published over 10 books/ book chapters and over 60
renowned journal articles.
电子与信息工程学院
2024年7月8日
撰稿：高志杰　审核：周浩江

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=526592
