标题：第383条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Hyper Ray Tracer – Key Enabler for Smart Wireless Environments
电子与信息工程学院　2024/5/21 11:07:00
（钟沛基 2022280095）
报告嘉宾
：官科，北京交通大学教授
邀 请 人：
郭重涛 副教授
时  间
：
6
月
03
日
　15
：
00-16
：
00
地 点
： 致信楼
N710
报告摘要：
Abstract
— Smart future requires a fully connected world and
provide a high data rate and dependable wireless connectivity for all
intelligent devices and services, in terms of communications, sensing, and
localization. In response to these requirements, highly accurate channel data
need to be realized in various scenarios at all frequency bands. This paper
presents the recent progress on hyper ray tracing for high-fidelity channel
modeling, which is also a key enabler for smart wireless environments. To begin
with, electromagnetic (EM) property and propagation mechanism libraries need to
be built for various materials at different bands, from propagation mechanism
measurements. Then, through extensive simulations using a high-performance ray
tracing platform, realistic channel data can be obtained for communication
channels in challenging conditions and multi-band sensing signals. Moreover,
machine learning models for super-resolution wireless channel characteristics
are presented to show how artificial intelligence can help transferring from
high-performance ray tracer to hyper ray tracer in terms of increasing the
efficiency of generating channel data while keeping high fidelity. Last but not
least, some demos are shown that in the future, hyper ray tracer is promising
to offer complete, real-time, accurate, and reliable multipath propagation data
that projects the EM environment of the physical world in all aspects to the
cyber space.
报告人简介
：
Guan Ke (Senior
Member, IEEE) received B.E. degree and Ph.D. degree from Beijing Jiaotong
University in 2006 and 2014, respectively. He is a Professor in State Key
Laboratory of Advanced Rail Autonomous Operation & School of Electronic and
Information Engineering, Beijing Jiaotong University. In 2015, he has been
awarded a Humboldt Research Fellowship for Postdoctoral Researchers. His
current research interests include ray-tracing and AI based digital twin of
electromagnetic environments in various complex scenarios.
Dr. Guan is the
pole leader of EURNEX (European Railway Research Network of Excellence). He was
the recipient of 2014 International Union of Radio Science (URSI) Young
Scientist Award, 2023 Emerald Global Outstanding Award, and 2023 JIMSE Global Young
Scientist Award in Advanced manufacturing. He is listed the World
’
s Top 2% Scientists (both for the
single year 2022 and the whole career). His papers received 14 Best Paper
Awards, including IEEE vehicular technology society Neal Shepherd memorial best
propagation paper award in 2019 and 2022, respectively.
电子与信息工程学院
2024年5月21日
撰稿：高志杰　审核：周浩江

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=521477
