标题：第386条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Research on personalized recommendation algorithm based on meta-learning
电子与信息工程学院　2024/5/20 15:07:00
（钟沛基 2022280095）
嘉 宾 ：
Dr. Y.M. Tang，香港理工大学
邀请人：张勇
教授
时间：
202
4
年
5
月
23
日
15
:
0
0
地点：深圳大学汇星楼
150
2
摘要：
As an important
method to alleviate the problem of information overload in the Internet era,
recommendation algorithm can automatically screen the content of interest for
users from the huge amount of information on the Internet. Classic
recommendation algorithms typically learn from a user's historical clicks to
model their personalized interest preferences and predict how likely they are
to be interested in candidate content. However, in the real scenario, new users
will enter the system every day, and the model can only obtain a small amount
of initial clicks for each new user, so it cannot produce accurate and
reasonable recommendation results, which is also known as the user cold start
problem. At the same time, with the development of meta-learning related research,
it has been widely used in many scenes with insufficient samples, and has
achieved remarkable results. Our research focuses on the application of
meta-learning method to alleviate the user cold start problem in the
recommendation system, so as to improve the performance of the recommendation
system. As an important method to alleviate the problem of information overload
in the Internet era, recommendation algorithm can automatically screen the
content of interest for users from the huge amount of information on the
Internet. Classic recommendation algorithms typically learn from a user's
historical clicks to model their personalized interest preferences and predict
how likely they are to be interested in candidate content. However, in the real
scenario, new users will enter the system every day, and the model can only
obtain a small amount of initial clicks for each new user, so it cannot produce
accurate and reasonable recommendation results, which is also known as the user
cold start problem. At the same time, with the development of meta-learning
related research, it has been widely used in many scenes with insufficient
samples, and has achieved remarkable results.
嘉宾个人简介：
Dr. YM Tang
 received his B.Eng. and
M.Phil. from CUHK. He was awarded a Ph.D. degree from the same university.
Currently, he is a Senior Teaching Fellow in the Department of Industrial and
Systems Engineering, PolyU. Dr. Tang is the Lab-in-charge of Integrated Product
Design (IPD) in the department. His research interests include virtual reality
(VR)/ mixed reality (MR), artificial intelligence (AI), blockchain technology,
digital twin, sustainable technology in industry 4.0 and healthcare
applications. Dr. Tang has published over 10 books/ book chapters and over 60
renowned journal articles.
电子与信息工程学院
2024年5月20日
撰稿：高志杰　审核：周浩江

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=521358
