标题：第504条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Research and Development of Deep Learning-based Methods for Detecting Unsafe Driving Behavior
电子与信息工程学院　2024/2/23 11:27:00
（钟沛基 2022280095）
讲座嘉宾：
Dr. Y.M. Tang
, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
邀 请 人：
张勇
教授
时  间 ：
202
4
年
2
月
24
日
14
:
3
0
地  点 ：
深圳大学汇星楼
150
4
摘要：
With the continuous development of transportation
and the increasing number of vehicles, there is growing attention towards the
important issue of traffic safety. Analyzing unsafe driving behavior is
believed to be an effective way to reduce traffic accidents and ensure road
safety. Therefore, studying and analyzing drivers' driving behavior holds great
significance. This seminar will focus on reporting the method for detecting unsafe
driving behavior using a deep learning-based approach and multiple data
sources.
The seminar will begin with a brief introduction to
the topic and its research background, followed by an in-depth discussion of
the recent advancements in related research. The research methodology used in
the study, model selection, commonly used multimodal datasets, current
progress, and encountered challenges during the research process will also be
discussed. Furthermore, the report will comprehensively analyze various factors
and propose potential future directions for the topic, thereby demonstrating
the long-term significance and sustainability of the study.
嘉宾个人简介：
Dr. YM Tang
 received his B.Eng. and
M.Phil. from CUHK. He was awarded a Ph.D. degree from the same university.
Currently, he is a Senior Teaching Fellow in the Department of Industrial and
Systems Engineering, PolyU. Dr. Tang is the Lab-in-charge of Integrated Product
Design (IPD) in the department. His research interests include virtual reality
(VR)/ mixed reality (MR), artificial intelligence (AI), blockchain technology,
digital twin, sustainable technology in industry 4.0 and healthcare
applications. Dr. Tang has published over 10 books/ book chapters and over 60
renowned journal articles.
电子与信息工程学院
2024年2月23日
撰稿：张勇　审核：高志杰

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=514194
