标题：第1032条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
学术讲座｜城市新生 ——超高层TOP综合体激化都市的活力 A Touch of the City
建筑与城市规划学院　2021/9/26 20:05:00
讲座时间
9月27日周一19：00
讲座地点
深圳大学建筑与城市规划学院三楼咖啡厅
讲座嘉宾
何春林先生
美国PCPA中国区总监
毕业于美国The Cooper Union
嘉宾简介
何春林先生于2013年加入西撒佩里公司。他曾在亚洲的多个高层办公楼，住宅楼，酒店楼和大型综合开发项目中担任主创设计师和项目经理。
目前，他是PCPA中国区总监和徐家汇中心（上海国际贸易中心）的高级项目经理，该中心是上海最大的商业开发项目。ITC是浦西徐家汇商业核心枢纽的一个大型综合项目，该项目将由甲级写字楼，高级商场和豪华酒店组成，总建筑面积约为76万平方米。开发的370米标志性办公大楼将成为上海浦西最高楼。
同时，他也在领导PCPA深圳团队负责位于深圳湾超级总部基地的深圳万科新总部大厦项目，位于广州白鹅潭的300米地标塔楼平安幸福中心以及位于深圳罗湖的华润500米湖贝地标塔楼。
其它参与的完工或在进行的项目包括位于德克萨斯州的美国航空公司全球总部；位于新泽西州的111泽西城综合体；位于米兰中心的Porta Nuova Gioia综合体等项目。
何先生同时办公于美国康涅狄格的PCPA总部和PCPA深圳办事处。在中国期间，其作为业主主联络人，并协助不同的PCPA办公室、项目顾问、本地设计院（LDI）之间的日常项目管理和商务拓展并代表公司参加国际性论坛发表主旨演讲。
在加入PCPA之前， 何先生曾在瑞士和英国工作生活多年并参与过多个大型住宅和综合开发项目的设计工作。
何先生曾受邀参与中国建筑协会，上海建筑师协会、万科，华润等组织的多场国际建筑论坛并担任主讲嘉宾。其拥有美国顶级设计学院 - 纽约库珀联盟建筑学院建筑学硕士学位，并获得该校全额奖学金。
Chunlin He
Pelli Clarke Pelli Architects (PCPA) Director of China Operations
M. Arch.
The Cooper Union
Chunlin He joined the firm in 2013. He has served as Senior Architectural Designer and project manager for several high-rise offices, residential, hotel buildings, and large scale mixed-use developments in Asia.
Currently, he is the Director of PCPA China Operations and Senior Project Manager for the Xu Jia Hui Center, International Trade Center (ITC), one of the largest commercial development in Shanghai, China. ITC is a mega integrated project in the Xujiahui commercial core hub of Puxi. The project will be made up of grade-A offices, a premium mall and a luxury hotel, totaling approximately 7.6 million square feet of gross floor area. The development’ 370-meter signature office tower will be the tallest in Puxi, Shanghai.
Also, he has leaded PCPA team working on several landmarks - Vanke New Headquarters in Shenzhen, which includes a Twin High-rise towers at Super City District; CFLD Ping An Center in Guangzhou which includes a 300m Super Tall tower in Liwan District; CR Hubei 500m Tower, the largest investment in Shenzhen city currently.
Other current or recently completed projects include American Airlines Corporate Headquarters, Fort Worth, Texas; 111 First Jersey City, Jersey City, New Jersey; GIFC, Guangzhou, China; and Porta Nuova Gioia, Milan, Italy.
Mr. He is based out of both the PCPA main office in New Haven, CT, and the PCPA Shenzhen, China office.  When in China he is the primary point of contact for the client group, and assists in the day-to-day project management and coordination between the different PCPA offices, project consultants, Local Design Institute (LDI), and presenting lectures as the presentative of PCPA.
Prior to PCPA, Mr. He has worked in Switzerland and United Kingdom for several residential and mixed-use developments.
Mr. He was the main speaker of multiple forums organized by ASC, SASC, Vanke, CRL etc., and received a Master of Architecture from the Cooper Union, where he was awarded the full-tuition scholarship.

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=458070
