标题：第107条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
学术讲座（四）：Chemical Nanoplasmonics: From Nanoparticle Synthesis to Surface-Enhanced Spectroscopic and Biomedical Applicatio
化学与环境工程学院　2025/1/9 16:25:00
Chemical Nanoplasmonics: From Nanoparticle Synthesis to Surface-Enhanced Spectroscopic and Biomedical Applications
主讲人：
Prof
. Jwa-Min Nam
时间：
1
月
14
日
下
午
1
5:10
地点：
丽湖校区守信楼
4
20
会议室
报告人简介：
Jwa-Min Nam received his Ph.D. degree in chemistry from Northwestern University (Chad Mirkin & Mark Ratner) (2004) and worked as a postdoctoral fellow at the University of California, Berkeley (Jay Groves) (2004-2005). Dr. Nam started his independent career as an assistant professor at Department of Chemistry, Seoul National University in 2006. He is currently a full professor in chemistry and an adjunct professor in biological sciences at Seoul National University. He served as a Vice Chair of Department of Chemistry, Seoul National University (2019-2021). He is currently serving as the Vice Dean (Planning & Public Relations) of College of Natural Sciences, Seoul National University, and he is also the Director, SNU Science Outreach Center, Seoul National University.
He has been elected as a Fellow of the Korean Academy of Science and Technology (KAST) (2024). He is a member of Global R&D Special Committee, the Presidential Advisory Council on Science and Technology, and was a member of Samsung Electronics Future Technology Committee (2019-2021). Jwa-Min Nam won many awards including Collegiate Inventors Award, National Inventors Hall of Fame, USA & USPTO (2004), Victor K. LaMer Award, American Chemical Society (2006), Outstanding Research Achievement Award, Ministry of Edu., Sci. & Tech., Republic of Korea (2010), Presidential Young Scientist Award, President of the Republic of Korea (2012), Distinguished Lectureship Award, Chemical Society of Japan (2013), Minister’s Basic Research Award from the Ministry of Science and ICT, Republic of Korea (2017), S-OIL Outstanding Thesis Advisor Award (2019), SNU Excellence in Research Award, the President, Seoul National University (2021), Outstanding Researcher Award, Inorganic Chemistry Division, the Korean Chemical Society (2022) and the Basic Science Award, the Ministry of Science and ICT, South Korea (2022).
He served as an Associate Editor (2020-2023) and is currently an Executive Editor of Nano Letters (ACS Publications). He is also on the editorial advisory boards of ACS Central Science (ACS Publications), Accounts of Chemical Research (ACS Publications), Small Methods (Wiley-VCH), Particle & Particle Systems Characterization (Wiley-VCH), ChemNanoMat (Wiley-VCH), Sensors and Diagnostics (RSC) and Journal of Nanobiotechnology.
Jwa-Min’s research interests include plasmonic nanoparticles, surface-enhanced spectroscopy, nanobiosensors, nanobiocomputing, nanomachines and nanoparticle-based therapeutics.
报告摘要
：
Plasmonics deals with understanding and manipulating the interaction between light and matter at a scale that is significantly smaller than the wavelength of light (e.g., metal nanoparticles), and chemical nanoplasmonics is mainly about the study and use of nanoscale chemistry for advancing plasmonics and the use of plasmonics to address key issues and challenges in chemistry and other related fields. Designing, synthesizing and controlling metal nanostructures with a superhigh precision for a large number of structures are the keys to the reliable and widespread use of plasmonic nanostructures in chemistry, materials science, optics, nanoscience, biotechnology and medicine. Here, I will share the design, synthetic strategies and characterization results of molecularly tunable and structurally reproducible plasmonic nanostructures including metal nanogap structures, multi-component metal nanoparticles and gold nanocatenanes with strong, controllable and quantifiable plasmonic signals (e.g., quantitative surface-enhanced Raman scattering). I will then show their potential in addressing some of important challenges in plasmonics, biosensing, bioimaging and therapeutics, and discuss how these new plasmonic materials and platforms can lead us to new breakthroughs in nanochemistry, next-generation disease diagnostics, molecular computing and nanomachines/nanorobotics.
欢迎有兴趣的师生参加！
撰稿：郭凯　审核：何传新
（更新于2025/1/10 13:07:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=540535
