标题：第1092条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
学术讲座（四十）：Publishing in EcoMat- A Flagship Journal in Green E
化学与环境工程学院　2021/5/11 11:19:00
Publishing in EcoMat- A Flagship Journal in Green Energy and Environment
主讲人
:
郑子剑教授
时间
: 5
月
1
2
日下午
4:00
地点
:
丽湖校区守信楼（原
B1
栋）一楼报告厅
报告人简介：
Prof. Zijian Zheng is currently Full Professor at the Institute of Textile and Clothing (ITC) and Research Institute for Smart Energy (RISE) at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University. His research interests are surface and polymer science, nanofabrication, flexible and wearable electronics, energy conversion and storage. Prof. Zheng received his B. Eng. in Chemical Engineering at Tsinghua University in 2003, and PhD in Chemistry at University of Cambridge in 2007 (Supervisor: Prof. Wilhelm T. S. Huck). In 2008, he worked as postdoctoral researcher with Prof. Chad A. Mirkin at Northwestern University in the USA. He joined ITC as Assistant Professor in 2009, and was promoted to tenured Associate Professor in 2013 and Professor in 2017. He has published ~120 papers in high-impact international scientific journals including Science, Nat. Mater., Nat. Comm., Adv. Mate., JACS, Angew. Chem.. He also files 25+ patents and is recipient of more than 15 academic awards. He serves as Guest Editor of Advanced Materials and Small, and Editor-in-Chief of EcoMat, a flagship open-access journal in green energy and environment published by Wiley. He is elected Founding Member of The Young Academy of Sciences of Hong Kong, the highest academic award of under-45 scientists in Hong Kong. He is also awarded Chang Jiang Scholars Program by the Ministry of Education of China.
讲座摘要：
EcoMat is an open access journal jointly published by Wiley and The Hong Kong Polytechnic University. The scope of EcoMat is intentionally broad and encompasses relevant fields for developing ecofriendly and sustainable energy, including topics such as wind, water and solar energy harvesting & conversion, batteries and supercapacitors, energy system and networks, thermoelectrics, fuel cells, carbon capture and storage, piezo and triboelectrics, water and air pollution control & cleaning, artificial photosynthesis, hydrogen generation & storage. This journal recognises the complexity of issues, and therefore particularly welcomes innovative interdisciplinary researches with wide impact. It will aim to make a mark in the materials science and adjacent fields with ambitions of a high academic impact. This talk will discuss how to publish in EcoMat and introduces several theme issues published in EcoMat recently.
欢迎有兴趣的师生参加！

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=449893
