标题：第156条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【深圳大学机电与控制工程学院40周年院庆学术报告第30场】学术讲座：Development and Industrialization of Zr- and Fe-based Bulk Metallic Glasses
机电与控制工程学院　2024/12/9 15:44:00
讲座题目：
Development and
Industrialization of Zr- and Fe-based Bulk Metallic Glasses
演讲嘉宾：
Prof. Akihisa Inoue 井上明久
讲座时间：
12月12日14:00
讲座地点：
粤海校区南区致信楼S630会议室
邀
请
人：
马将 教授
讲座内容简介：
Multicomponent
alloys have attracted definitely increasing interest for the last three decades
since the first synthesis of multicomponent bulk metallic glasses (BMGs) by
copper mold casting in 1990. The multicomponent alloys reported to date are
classified to BMGs, BMG composites, high entropy (HE) BMGs and HE alloys. When
we focus on engineering application, the most widely commercialized alloys are
BMGs. Their BMGs are roughly classified to nonmagnetic Zr-based and
ferromagnetic Fe-based types. The former type is typically composed of
Zr-Al-Ni-Cu and Zr-Al-Ni-Cu-(Ti,Nb) systems and the latter type is
Fe-Cr-(P,B,C,Si), Fe-(Cr,Nb)-P-B and Fe-(Cr,Nb)-(P,B,Si) systems. The
commercialization articles have been usually produced by die casting from
liquid for the Zr-based BMGs, while the Fe-based glass-type alloys have been
produced by high-pressure gas atomization or ultrahigh water atomization. The
former BMGs have been used as various structural materials such as casing,
housing, pin spring, hinge, clinic instruments, ratch cover writing tool,
precise gears, knife, optical mirror, sporting goods and ornaments etc., while
the latter glassy powders are used to produce soft magnetic composite (SMC) by
mixing with resin et al. The SMCs exhibit unique soft magnetic properties with
the features of low core losses, good high-frequency permeability
characteristics and high electrical resistivity in high frequency range from
100 kHz to 5 MHz. High glass-forming ability enables the mass production of
good spherical glassy powders over the whole particle size range even by
low-cost water atomization process. Owing to their unique production process
and good soft magnetic properties, the SMCs have been used as high performance
of inductors and reactors with low core losses even in a high frequency range
up to 3 MHz in various kinds of fields such as smartphone, smartwatch,
tablet-type computer, notebook PC, DC/DC convertor, point of load power supply,
digital camera, automobile AV equipment, car navigation system and RFID sheet
etc. Thus, Zr- and Fe-based BMGs are expected to increase academic and
technological interests as functional materials in recent information
communication technology owing to the unique properties which cannot be
obtained for ordinary crystalline structural and magnetic materials.
演讲嘉宾简介：
井上明久
（Akihisa Inoue），材料学家，
日本学士院院士
，曾任日本东北大学校长，美国国家工程院外籍院士，曾获诺贝尔物理学奖提名，日本内阁总理大臣奖、中华人民共和国友谊奖获得者。井上明久长期从事非晶态金属、纳米晶体金属、纳米准晶体金属、块体非晶合金等材料的科学研究。井上明久从20世纪80年代开始从事块体非晶合金材料科学领域的研究，曾在总结大量研究结果的基础上提出了非晶合金形成的三条原则理论来指导新合金体系，被该领域广泛应用。发表SCI收录论文3000余篇，被引用超过12万次，连续11年（1996年—2006年）全球材料科学领域文章引用率第一（ESI统计）。
撰稿：张振轩　审核：马将、郑纯
（更新于2024/12/10 9:10:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=538326
