标题：第164条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Continuous-Aperture Array Based Wireless Communications: When Hertz Meets Leibniz
电子与信息工程学院　2024/12/2 9:37:00
演讲嘉宾
: Professor Yuanwei Liu
，
The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong
邀 请 人：黄磊教授、张沛昌副教授
时  间 ：
12
月
17
日下午
16:00
地  点 ：致信楼
N710
摘要
:
Multiple-antenna technologies are evolving toward larger aperture sizes, denser
antenna deployments, higher frequencies, and more flexible aperture shapes.
This evolution has led to the concept of continuous-aperture arrays (CAPA),
which form a spatially continuous electromagnetic aperture. CAPA represents a
significant shift from traditional spatially discrete arrays (SPDAs) by acting
as a single electrically large antenna with a continuous current distribution.
Compared with SPDAs, CAPA can achieve extreme spatial resolution and approach
the upper limits of spatial degrees of freedom within a given spatial resource.
In this talk, we provide a comprehensive overview of the state-of-the-art in
CAPAs. We begin by introducing the fundamental principles of CAPA, including
practical implementation and signal models. Next, we explore its
information-theoretic limits in both uplink and downlink communications.
Additionally, we perform a performance analysis for CAPA-based line-of-sight
and fading channels, followed by a discussion on CAPA’s beamforming design.
Throughout, we highlight the key differences between CAPA and conventional
SPDAs. Finally, we conclude with an exploration of potential opportunities and
unresolved challenges in the field of CAPA.
个人简介
：
Yuanwei Liu is a
tenured full Professor in Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering
(EEE) at The University of Hong Kong (HKU). He is IEEE Fellow, AAIA Fellow, web
of Science Highly Cited Researcher (2021 to present). His research interests
include next generation multiple access, integrated sensing and communications,
reconfigurable intelligent surface, near-field communications and mobile edge
generation. He is listed as one of 35 Innovators Under 35 China in 2022 by MIT
Technology Review.
He
serves
as an IEEE Communication Society Distinguished Lecturer, an IEEE Vehicular
Technology Society Distinguished Lecturer, the academic Chair for the Next
Generation Multiple Access Emerging Technology Initiative. He received IEEE
ComSoc Outstanding Young Researcher Award for EMEA in 2020. He received the
2020 IEEE Signal Processing and Computing for Communications (SPCC) Technical
Committee Early Achievement Award, IEEE Communication Theory Technical
Committee (CTTC) 2021 Early Achievement Award. He received IEEE ComSoc
Outstanding Nominee for Best Young Professionals Award in 2021. He received
four IEEE best paper awards. He serves Co-Editor-in-Chief of IEEE ComSoc Technical
Newsletter, Area Editor of IEEE TCOM/CL, Editor of IEEE COMST/TWC/TCCN
/TVT/TNSE, (leading) guest editor of Proceedings of IEEE/IEEE JSAC/JSTSP etc.,
the rapporteur of ETSI Industry Specification Group on RIS Industry
Specification Group Work Item 6, and the UK representative for the URSI
Commission C on “Radio communication Systems and Signal Processing”.
电子与信息工程学院
2024年12月2日
撰稿：高志杰　审核：周浩江
（更新于2024/12/5 9:38:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=537651
