标题：第265条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Dispersive Material Antennas
电子与信息工程学院　2024/10/8 9:49:00
讲座嘉宾：
Yi Huang,
英国利物浦大学（
IEEE Fellow
）
邀  请 人：何业军 教授
时      间：
2024.10.9
（周三）下午
2:30
地     点：致信楼
N710
摘要
:
Antennas
are an essential device of a radio system. How to make them wideband but with a
compact side has been a tough question for decades. In this talk, we are going
to explore a new method to solve such a problem – using a dispersive material.
A dispersive
material has a refractive index (the square root of permittivity) varying with
the frequency. Different colours of light will be refracted, or bent, by
different amounts when they pass through such a material. It is commonly used
in optics, especially in lenses and prisms, to control the dispersion of light.
In telecommunications, the dispersion properties of materials can also impact
signal quality and data transmission rates, which is an important consideration
in fibre optic communication systems. For RF/microwave antennas, dielectric
materials have been used to make dielectric resonate antennas (DRAs), where
non-dispersive materials (such as ceramics) are utilized to ensure stable
performance over the operational frequency. However dispersive materials have
not been employed for antennas since this topic has not been properly studied
before and their suitability has been a question.
If the permittivity
of a composite material could be configured as a special function of frequency
(a dispersive material), such as the permittivity inversely proportional to the
frequency square – this means that the wavelength of an EM wave in the material
becomes a constant! We can therefore make antennas (such as a half-wave
antenna) to be of an ultrawide bandwidth but compact in size which is extremely
attractive. We are going to share the latest development of this work at
Liverpool (the success and problems) and hopefully, you will get some
inspiration to work in this new area.
个人简介：
Prof Yi Huang
received DPhil in Communications from the University of Oxford, UK
in 1994. He has been conducting research in the areas of wireless
communications, applied electromagnetics, radar, and antennas since 1987. His
experience includes 3 years spent with NRIET (China) as a
Radar Engineer
and various periods with the Universities of
Birmingham, Oxford, and Essex in the UK as a member of research staff. He
worked as a
Research Fellow
at
British Telecom Labs in 1994 and then joined the Department of Electrical
Engineering & Electronics, the
University
of Liverpool
, UK as a
Faculty
in
1995, where he is now a full
Professor in
Wireless Engineering
, the
Head of
High Frequency Engineering Group
.
Dr Huang has published over 500
refereed papers in leading international journals and conference proceedings
and authored books on
Antennas: from Theory to Practice
(John Wiley,
2008, and 2021) and
Reverberation Chambers
(Wiley 2016, and 2019). He
has received over 10 awards (e.g. the IET Premium Award 2022 for Best Paper,
EuCAP2023 Best Antenna Paper, the IET Innovation Award 2018, and BAE Systems
Chairman's Award 2017) and many research grants from research councils,
government agencies, charities, the EU, and industry, acted as a consultant to
various companies, and served on a number of national and international
technical committees (such as the IET, EPSRC, European ACE, COST-IC0603, and
COST-IC1102, and EurAAP) and been an Editor, Associate Editor or Guest Editor
of four of international journals (including IEEE AWPL 2016-2022). He has been
a keynote/invited speaker and organiser of many international conferences and
workshops (e.g. EuCAP2018/2024, IEEE iWAT, WiCom, and LAPC). He was the
Editor-in-Chief of Wireless Engineering and Technology and IEEE AWPL, is now an
Associate Editor of IEEE Trans on Antennas and Propagation, a College member of
EPSRC, the UK/Ireland Delegate to EurAAP (2016-2020, 2022-date), a member IEEE
APS New Technology Directions Committee, a Distinguished Lecturer of IEEE APS,
and a Fellow of IEEE.
More information can be found from:
https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/electrical-engineering-and-electronics/staff/yi-huang/
电子与信息工程学院
2024年10月8日
撰稿：高志杰　审核：周浩江
（更新于2024/10/8 15:04:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=532122
- https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/electrical-engineering-and-electronics/staff/yi-huang/
