标题：第284条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【40周年院庆系列活动】之学术活动第39场暨2024深圳大学工业化建造与绿色安全运维系列学术讲座第8场-功能性抗霜表面研究
土木与交通工程学院　2024/8/27 14:59:00
讲座题目：
开发具有增强防霜延迟和除霜过程的功能性抗霜表面
英文题目：
Developing anti-frosting functional surfaces with the enhanced frost retardation and defrosting process
报告人：
Dong
R
ip KIM
,
教授
,
韩国汉阳大学
Dong Rip KIM, Professor, Hanyang University
, Korea
讲座时间：
2024
年
8
月
29
日（星期
四
）
10:00-11:30
讲座地点：
深圳大学沧海校区致工楼
B401
会议室
报告人简介：
Dr. Dong Rip Kim received his Ph.D. degree in Mechanical Engineering at Stanford University, the United States in 2012. He has published more than 110 peer-reviewed journal papers in the area of Mechanical Engineering. His research interests are design and fabrication of functional surfaces and materials and application of those to various devices for enhanced performance. He joined Hanyang University as an assistant professor in 2012. He is now a professor in School of Mechanical Engineering at Hanyang University in South Korea, and serves as the head of School of Mechanical Engineering at Hanyang University and the director of Mechanical Engineering and Technology Research Institute.
报告摘要：
Frost formation induces considerable energy and economic loss in diverse industrial applications, including power line, aircrafts, refrigeration and heat pump systems. Endowing anti-frosting functionality to surfaces has been highlighted to mitigate frosting-induced issues as a passive strategy with no additional energy consumption. In this talk, we present the recent progress on developing anti-frosting functional surfaces in our research group. First, fabrication of the wettability-controlled surfaces, such as superhydrophobic, superhydrophilic, and slippery surfaces, are presented. Their anti-frosting characteristics is discussed in terms of frost retardation and defrosting performance. Second, development of superhydrophobic-superhydrophilic hybrid surfaces is presented to promote synergistic effects of superhydrophobic and superhydrophilic surfaces, thereby achieving excellent anti-frosting functionality. Finally, the strategy to apply the rationally designed anti-frosting surfaces to heat exchangers is also discussed. We believe that our results can provide a guideline to further enhance the anti-frosting performance of target surfaces.
撰稿：范成　审核：包小华
（更新于2024/8/28 11:24:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=528697
