标题：第290条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】The Pursuit of Excellence in Antenna Research
电子与信息工程学院　2024/8/27 10:41:00
报告题目
：
The Pursuit of Excellence in Antenna
Research
报告人：张跃平教授，
新加坡南洋理工大学
邀请人：孙宇祥
助理教授
报告时间：
2024
年
8
月
30
日，星期五，
10:10-10:50
报告地点：致信楼
N107
报告厅
报告摘要
：
The pursuit of excellence in antenna research by the speaker over the
years will be reviewed. First and foremost, the genesis of fundamental
knowledge that has deepened our understanding of antennas will be presented.
Special emphasis will be given to the impedance relations between differential
antennas and their single-ended counterparts. It will be shown that there exist
(1) simple quantitative relations, which may be used to determine one impedance
from the other whose solution is already known; (2) the antenna structures in
which the Babinet’s principle does not hold but their product of impedances is
always constant and independent of frequency. Second, the story behind the
development of antenna-in-package (AiP) technology from academic curiosity to
industrial mainstream will be unravelled. Third, the invention of microbump
antennas and arrays for terahertz (THz) wireless system-on-chip will be
disclosed. An analogy between antennas and transistors will be described to
highlight the importance of microbump antennas. It is envisioned that the
development of antenna-on-chip (AoC) technology based on microbump antennas will
pave the antenna way for future THz wireless communication and sensing.
Finally, some conclusions will be drawn.
报告人简历：
Yueping ZHANG
(M’03-SM’07-F’10) is currently Professor with the School of Electrical and
Electronic Engineering at Nanyang Technological University, Singapore. He was
Distinguished Lecturer of the IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society (IEEE AP-S)
(2018 -2022) and Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Antennas and
Propagation (IEEE TAP) (2010 - 2016).
Prof.
Zhang has published numerous papers, including two invited and one regular
papers in the Proceedings of the IEEE and one invited paper in the IEEE TAP. He
is the Chinese radio scientist who has published a historical article in an
English learned journal such as the IEEE Antennas and Propagation Magazine. He
received the 2012 IEEE AP-S Sergei A. Schelkunoff Prize Paper Award.
Prof.
Zhang has been invited to deliver plenary, keynote, and invited speeches at the
flagship conferences organized by national and international learned societies
since 2000. He received a few Best Paper Awards from the International
Conferences held in the United Kingdom and China.
Prof.
Zhang holds seven US patents. He has made pioneering and significant
contributions to the development of AiP technology that have had a profound
impact on antennas and electronic packaging. He received the 2020 IEEE AP-S
John Kraus Antenna Award. He also received the 2022 Exceptional Technical
Achievement Award from the IEEE Electronics Packaging Society. His current
research interests include the development of AoC technology for very
large-scale antenna integration and characterization of chip-scale propagation
channels at terahertz for wireless chip area network (WCAN).
撰稿：黄泽端　审核：周浩江
（更新于2024/8/27 10:42:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=528673
