标题：第336条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Research and Development of Deep Learning-based Methods for Unsafe Driving Behavior Detection
电子与信息工程学院　2024/6/19 16:13:00
嘉 宾 ：
Dr. Y.M. Tang
, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
邀请人：
张勇
教授
时 间：
6
月
20
日
14
：
3
0
地 点：
深圳大学汇星楼
150
2
摘要：
With
the development of transportation and the increase in the number of vehicles,
more and more people begin to pay attention to the important topic of traffic
safety, and it is believed that the analysis of unsafe driving behavior can
effectively reduce the occurrence of traffic accidents and ensure traffic
safety, so it is of great significance to study and analyze the driving
behavior of drivers. This presentation and workshop will focus on deep
learning-based detection of unsafe driving behavior with multiple data sources.
After a brief introduction of the topic and research background, the latest
progress of related research will be discussed in depth. This presentation and
workshop will also focus on the research methodology used in the study, model
selection, and especially the presentation of the effect of processing and
categorizing multi-modal driving distraction data for different models. In
addition, this presentation will also introduce the current work progress of
the topic and the problems encountered during the research process. In
addition, various factors will be synthesized and analyzed to propose possible
future directions for the topic, demonstrating to the audience the long-term
significance of the topic and the sustainability of the research.
嘉宾个人简介：
Dr. YM Tang
received his B.Eng. and
M.Phil. from CUHK. He was awarded a Ph.D. degree from the same university.
Currently, he is a Senior Teaching Fellow in the Department of Industrial and
Systems Engineering, PolyU. Dr. Tang is the Lab-in-charge of Integrated Product
Design (IPD) in the department. His research interests include virtual reality
(VR)/ mixed reality (MR), artificial intelligence (AI), blockchain technology,
digital twin, sustainable technology in industry 4.0 and healthcare
applications. Dr. Tang has published over 10 books/ book chapters and over 60
renowned journal articles.
电子与信息工程学院
2024年6月19日
撰稿：高志杰　审核：周浩江

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=524691
