标题：第339条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【40周年院庆系列活动】之学术活动第27场暨2024深圳大学工业化建造与绿色安全运维系列学术讲座第5场——被动辐射致冷技术概述：原理、应用与挑战
土木与交通工程学院　2024/6/18 14:28:00
讲座题目：
被动辐射致冷技术概述：原理、应用与挑战
英文题目：
Overview of Passive Radiative Cooling Technology: Principles, Applications, and Challenges
报告人：
重庆大学
冯驰
教授
Chi Feng, Professor, Chongqing University
讲座时间：
2024
年
6
月
22
日（星期六）
10:00-11:30
讲座地点：
深圳大学沧海校区致工楼二楼
BIM
会议室
报告人简介：
冯驰，重庆大学建筑城规学院副院长，教授，博士生导师，国家级高层次海外青年人才计划入选者。主要从事建筑热湿环境与绿色低碳技术方面的研究，发表论文
110
余篇，主
/参编国内外标
准
18
部，主持中欧九国联合对比测试项目、国家自然科学基金面上
/青年项目、国家重点研发计划子课题等
10
余项科研项目。担任
ISO/TC 205 JWG11
技术委员会成员，中国建筑学会建筑物理分会理事，中国硅酸盐学会房屋建筑材料分会理事，
Building Simulation
等
10
余个国内外著名期刊的科学
/客座编辑。曾获四川省科技进步一等奖、中建总公司科学技术一等奖、
EBE
国际期刊优秀青年学者等多种奖励。
Dr. Chi Feng, Deputy Dean of the School of Architecture and Urban Planning at Chongqing University, is a Professor and Doctoral Supervisor. He is a selected member of the National High-Level Overseas Youth Talent Program. His primary research focuses on the thermal and humid environments in architecture and green, low-carbon technologies. Dr. Feng has published over 110 academic papers and has been the lead or contributing editor of 18 domestic and international standards. He has led more than 10 scientific research projects, including a joint comparative test project among nine Central European countries, National Natural Science Foundation of China general and youth projects, and sub-topics of the National Key Research and Development Plan. Dr. Feng serves as a member of the ISO/TC 205 JWG11 technical committee, a director of the Building Physics Branch of the Architectural Society of China, and a director of the Building Materials Branch of the Chinese Ceramic Society. He is also a scientific or guest editor for more than 10 renowned domestic and international journals, including Building Simulation. He has received multiple awards, such as the First Prize for Science and Technology Progress in Sichuan Province, the First Prize of the China State Construction Engineering Corporation for Science and Technology, and the Outstanding Young Scholar Award from the international journal EBE.
报告摘要：
随着全球气温的升高和制冷需求的激增，被动辐射致冷技术成为了近年来世界范围内的研究热点。本次报告将系统介绍辐射致冷技术的原理、辐射致冷材料的结构以及辐射致冷技术的应用。此外，冯驰教授还将分享其团队近年来在辐射致冷方面取得的研究进展，并展望该技术的未来研究方向。
As global temperatures rise and the demand for cooling soars, passive radiative cooling technology has emerged as a hot research topic worldwide in recent years. This presentation will systematically introduce the principles of radiative cooling technology, the structure of radiative cooling materials, and the applications of radiative cooling technology. In addition, Professor Feng Chi will share the research progress his team has made in the field of radiative cooling in recent years and provide an outlook on future research directions for this technology.
撰稿：范成　审核：包小华

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=524411
