标题：第417条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
学术讲座7：Catalysis and Sustainability: A Journey from Atom to Planet
微纳光电子学研究院　2024/4/25 16:07:00
题目：
Catalysis and Sustainability: A Journey from Atom to Planet
报告人：
Javier Pérez-Ramírez
（
Institute for Chemical and Bioengineering and NCCR Catalysis, ETH Zurich, Switzerland
）
时间：
4
月
27
日，
10:30
地点：汇典楼二楼会议室
报告
摘要
：
Ensuring a sustainable future for the chemicals and energy industries is a pressing global concern that has far-reaching impacts on the environment, human health, quality of life, and the economy. Catalysis plays a crucial role in this journey, constantly pushing the boundaries of conventional design to spearhead the transition towards defossilized and circular chemical manufacturing. This talk aims to illustrate the interdisciplinary and cross-scale mindset required to design catalysts that meet the ever-evolving sustainability criteria, bridging the gap between atom and planet. Delving into the latest research from my laboratory, I will showcase how a deeper understanding of catalyzed processes is driving revolutionary technological advancements. Through case studies in key areas such as CO
2
valorization, polymer manufacture, and organic synthesis, I will exemplify how nanoscale engineering and the availability of increasingly powerful tools to access structural variations and mechanism under relevant conditions aid catalyst discovery. At the forefront of design, I will demonstrate the importance of precisely controlling the architecture, speciation, and dynamics of supported metals in low-nuclearity catalysts, highlighting the impact that even the smallest changes can have on performance. The presentation will touch on current frontiers in catalyst synthesis and characterization, and emphasize the critical role of quantitative metrics in guiding low-carbon strategies.
个人简介：
Javier Pérez-​Ramírez has been full Professor of Catalysis Engineering at the Institute for Chemical and Bioengineering of the ETH Zurich since January 2010.
Prof. Pérez-​Ramírez was born in Benidorm, Spain in 1974. He studied Chemical Engineering at the University of Alicante, Spain, (1997) and earned his PhD degree under Profs. Moulijn and Kapteijn at TUDelft, The Netherlands (2002). He then went to industry (2002-​2005), holding several research positions at Norsk Hydro and Yara International in Porsgrunn (Norway). He returned to academia as ICREA research professor and group leader at ICIQ in Tarragona, Spain (2005-​2009). In 2010, he took up office as full professor at the ETH Zurich.
Prof. Pérez-​Ramírez researches the science and engineering of heterogeneous catalysis to design sustainable and eco-​efficient processes.
撰稿：孙宏丽　审核：关欣蕊
（更新于2024/4/25 16:15:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=519206
