标题：第451条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
学术讲座（二十五）：Rendering Enhanced Catalysis via Photothermal-Promoted Dynamic Active Sites Generation and Interfacing with Si
化学与环境工程学院　2024/4/8 17:15:00
Render
ing Enhanced Catalysis via Photothermal-Promoted Dynamic Active Sites Generation and Interfacing with Single Atoms
主讲人：
Prof. Zhiqun Lin
时间：
4
月
10
日下午
15:
00
地点：丽湖校区守信楼
518
会议室
报告人简介：
Dr. Zhiqun Lin is currently Professor of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at the National University of Singapore (NUS). He received his BS degree in Materials Chemistry from Xiamen University in 1995, Master degree in Macromolecular Science from Fudan University in 1998, and PhD degree in Polymer Science and Engineering from University of Massachusetts, Amherst in 2002. He did his postdoctoral research at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He joined the Department of Materials Science and Engineering at the Iowa State University as an Assistant Professor in 2004 and was promoted to Associate Professor in 2010. He moved to Georgia Institute of Technology in 2011, and become a Professor in 2014. He relocated to National University of Singapore in 2022. His research interests include solar cells, batteries, photocatalysis, electrocatalysis, block copolymers, conjugated polymers, functional nanocrystals, hierarchically structured and assembled materials, and surface and interfacial properties.
He has published more than 400 peer reviewed journal articles (with an h-index of 110), 19 book chapters, and 9 books. Currently, he serves as an Associate Editor for Nano Energy, Chemical Engineering Journal, Nanoscale and Nanoscale Advances. He is a Fellow of Royal Society of Chemistry (2014), Japan Society for Promotion of Science (JSPS) Fellow (2015), American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) Fellow (2018), ACS PMSE Fellow and POLY Fellow (2019), ACS Fellow (2022), and MRS Fellow (2023).
讲座摘要
：
The ability to create highly efficient, low-cost and stable electrocatalysts, and to craft metal single atom catalysts (SACs) in which transition metal atoms are asymmetrically coordinated with organic heteroatoms, represents important endeavors toward accelerating sluggish water-oxidation kinetics and developing high-performance SACs over symmetrically coordinated counterparts, respectively. In this talk, I will discuss the implementation and unravelling of photothermal effect of spinel nanoparticles on promoting dynamic active sites generation to markedly enhance their oxygen evolution reaction activity via an integrated operando Raman and density functional theory study. Subsequently, I will present a superior oxygen reduction reaction/oxygen evolution reaction bifunctional electrocatalyst enabled by wrinkled MoS2/N-doped carbon core/shell nanospheres interfaced with single Fe atoms for robust wearable zinc-air batteries with high capacity and outstanding cycling stability. Finally, I will introduce a very recent study on Fe single atoms with asymmetrically coordinated nitrogen and phosphorus atoms scaffolded by rationally designed mesoporous carbon nanospheres with spoke-like nanochannels for boosting ring-opening reaction of epoxides to produce an array of pharmacologically-important
β
-amino alcohols.
欢迎有兴趣的师生参加！
撰稿：郭凯　审核：何传新

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=517551
