标题：第533条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
学术讲座（二）：Impacts of Climate Change on Pesticide Toxicity in Coastal Environments
化学与环境工程学院　2024/1/4 14:49:00
主讲人：
Daniel Schlenk
教授
时间：
1
月
7
日
下
午
15
:0
0
地点：丽湖校区守信楼
420
会议室
报告人简介：
Daniel Schlenk, Ph.D. is Professor of Aquatic Ecotoxicology and Environmental Toxicology at the University of California Riverside. He has published more than 350 peer reviewed journal articles and book chapters on the identification of Molecular Initiating and Key Events within Adverse Outcome Pathways for emerging and legacy contaminants in wildlife and humans. He has particular expertise in the linkage of molecular and bioanalytical responses associated with neuroendocrine development and whole animal effects on reproduction, growth and survival. A Fellow of AAAS and SETAC, he has served on Scientific Advisory Panels supported by the California State Water Board in the USA focused on the monitoring of recycled and surface waters for Emerging Contaminants. He has served as a permanent member and chair of the USEPA TSCA Chemical Safety Advisory Committee from 2016-2023 and was a permanent member and Chair of the USEPA FIFRA Science Advisory Panel. He is currently an Executive and Associate Editor for Environmental Science and Technology, and ES&T Letters. He was co-Editor-in Chief of Aquatic Toxicology from 2005-2011 and currently serves on its editorial board as well as the editorial boards of Toxicological Sciences, and Marine Environmental Research.
报告
摘要
：
Sea Level rise has led to the intrusion of saltwater into estuarine coastal areas.  Temperatures have also increased in coastal embayments, and combined with hypersaline conditions may serve as non-chemical stressors for organisms residing in these ecosystems. Our laboratory has shown that non-chemical stressors can have significant impacts on the toxicity of legacy and emerging contaminants that co-occur with climate-change derived environmental changes. Effects are species-specific with organisms having euryhaline life histories showing differential sensitivities to pesticides than those with stenohaline life histories.  Hormonal changes as a result of osmoregulatory responses from non-chemical exposures impact biotransformation which can either activate contaminants or detoxify them depending on the life history of the animal.  Targets are diverse and include numerous neuro-endocrine signalling pathways that alter behavior and reproduction. This presentation will provide an overview of how adverse outcome pathway paradigms can be used to estimate toxicity from combined chemical and non-chemical stressors which may be used in weight of evidence components of ecological risk assessments.
欢迎有兴趣的师生参加！

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=512142
