标题：第549条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Meta-Networking: Empowering Communications with Multi-faceted Awareness
电子与信息工程学院　2023/12/22 11:03:00
讲座嘉宾：
Celimuge
Wu, The University of Electro-Communications, Japan
邀  请 人：
马嫄 副教授
时  间：
12
月
29
日，星期五，
10
：
00
Beijing time
会议链接
：
https://meeting.tencent.com/dm/OFAAT0jdxavn
腾讯会议
Meeting ID: 756-454-756
讲座摘要
：
Abstract:
This talk introduces Meta-networking: a revolutionary networking architecture
that transmits beyond the Shannon capacity of communication channels by
improving the information density in the network with collaboration among
distributed network entities based on efficient service classification and data
feature extraction. An overview of Meta-Networking is provided and the key
principles and components of Meta-Networking, including the
quality-of-experience characterization, AI-empowered semantic encoding, and
information density improvement, are analyzed. It enables a groundbreaking
communication system where a much larger amount of information is transmitted
without increasing the size of binary digits. Furthermore, an application
scenario for image transmission in the Internet of Vehicles is discussed, which
shows significant performance improvement compared with conventional
communications. It is believed that Meta-Networking has the potential for
revolutionizing communication systems with higher efficiency, stronger
reliability, and intelligence awareness.
报告人简介：
Celimuge
Wu received his PhD degree from The University of Electro-Communications,
Japan. He is currently a professor and the director of Meta-Networking Research
Center, The University of Electro-Communications. His research interests
include Vehicular Networks, Edge Computing, IoT, and AI for Wireless Networking
and Computing. He serves as an associate editor of IEEE TCCN, IEEE TNSE, and
IEEE TGCN. He is Vice Chair (Asia Pacific) of IEEE Technical Committee on Big
Data (TCBD). He is a recipient of 2021 IEEE Communications Society Outstanding
Paper Award, 2021 IEEE Internet of Things Journal Best Paper Award, IEEE
Computer Society 2020 Best Paper Award and IEEE Computer Society 2019 Best
Paper Award Runner-Up. He is an IEEE Vehicular Technology Society Distinguished
Lecturer.
电子与信息工程学院
2023年12月22日
（更新于2023/12/22 11:05:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=511358
