标题：第550条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
土木与交通工程学院学术讲座: 基于可靠度的结构设计方法
土木与交通工程学院　2023/12/21 11:28:00
应深圳大学广东省滨海土木工程耐久性重点实验室，土木与交通工程学院邀请，北京工业大学赵衍刚教授将于
2023年12月25日访问深圳大学，进行学术与合作研究，并为师生做有关学术讲座。欢迎感兴趣的师生与会交流！
报告人
:赵衍刚 教授 (北京工业大学教授、国家特聘专家，日本工程院外籍院士，
北京市战略学家
)
报告主题
: 基于可靠度的结构设计方法
报告时间
: 2023年12月25日 (星期一) 下午15:00-17:00
报告地点
: 深圳大学致工楼 土木与交通工程学院C501会议室
主讲人简介：赵衍刚，工学博士，北京工业大学教授，神奈川大学名誉教授。国家特聘专家，日本工程院外籍院士，北京市战略科学家，国务院学位委员会第
8届土木学科评议组成员，国际结构体系优化及可靠性委员会副主席。
获名古屋工业大学工学博士。曾任名古屋工业大学副教授，神奈川大学教授，同济大学光华学者讲座教授。长期从事结构抗震与结构可靠度领域教学和科学研究工作，在基于可靠度的结构抗震设计及考虑参数不确定性的结构动力可靠度分析方面颇有建树。作为教育部创新团队学术带头人，主持国家自然科学基金委员会重点项目，高速铁路基础研究联合基金重点项目、等系列重点项目。英文专著
1部，日文著书2部。发表SCI论文200余篇。曾获日中韩3国建筑学会国际学术期刊最佳论文奖，日本建筑学会奖(该奖设立80余年以来首位华人学者获奖)。
At the invitation of Guangdong Key Laboratory of Durability for Marine Civil Engineering and College of Civil and Transportation Engineering, Shenzhen University, Prof. Zhao Yangang from Beijing Institute of Technology (BIT) will visit Shenzhen University on 25 December 2023, to conduct academic and collaborative research, and to give a lecture to the students and faculty members. Interested students and faculty are welcome to attend!
Speaker: Prof. Yan-Gang Zhao (Beijing Institute of Technology (BIT), State-appointed Expert, Foreign Academician of Japan Academy of Engineering, Beijing Strategist)
Topic: Reliability-based Structural Design Methods
Time: December 25, 2023 (Monday) 15:00-17:00pm
Venue: Meeting Room C501, College of Civil and Transportation Engineering, Zhigong Building, Shenzhen University, China
Introduction of Speaker:
Professor Zhao Yangang, Ph.D., Professor of Beijing Institute of Technology, Honorary Professor of Kanagawa University. He is a state-appointed expert, a foreign member of the Japanese Academy of Engineering, a Strategic Scientist of Beijing, a member of the 8th Civil Engineering Discipline Review Group of the Academic Degrees Committee of the State Council, and a vice-chairman of the International Committee on Optimization and Reliability of Structural Systems.
Prof. Zhao received his Ph.D. from Nagoya Institute of Technology. He was an Associate Professor at Nagoya Institute of Technology, a Professor at Kanagawa University, and a Guanghua Scholar Chair Professor at Tongji University. He has been engaged in teaching and scientific research in the field of structu
ral seismic resistance and structural reliability for a long time, and has made significant achievements in reliability-based seismic design and structural dynamic reliability analysis. He was the academic leader of the Innovation Team of the Ministry of Education. He has been in charge of the key projects of the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC), the key projects of the Joint Fund for Basic Research of High-speed Railway, and a series of key projects. He has written one monograph in English and two books in Japanese. He has published more than 200 SCI papers. He was awarded the Best Paper Award of International Academic Journal by Japan, China and Korea Architectural Association, and the Prize of Architectural Association of Japan.
（更新于2023/12/22 9:15:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=511290
