标题：第552条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Facilitating Security and Trust among Multiple Parties through Blockchain Techniques
电子与信息工程学院　2023/12/18 16:01:00
讲座嘉宾
：
Dr. Yuhong Liu
Santa Clara University
邀 请 人
：张
鹏
副
教授
时  间
：
12
月
22
日
上午
10
:00
地  点
：
致信楼
N710
摘要：
With the rapid evolvement of
edge computing, massive users and devices at the edge of the computer networks
are more actively involved in the networks, pushing the information collection,
computation, storage, and communications more towards end users. In these more
decentralized systems, how to enable efficient and trustworthy interactions
among different parties becomes an essential issue.
Blockchain has been considered
as a promising approach to facilitate the establishment of decentralized
trustworthy computing systems with non-repudiated information records. With the
emergence of Bitcoin, blockchain has attracted wide attention as a secure and
decentralized platform to enable peer-to-peer exchanges of digital currency.
However, Bitcoin can only support simple scripts, which limit its major
applications to only decentralized finance. Ethereum is the most well-known
permissionless blockchain platform that generalizes the system as a state
machine and enables smart contracts, a piece of code that can support complex
logic and be self-executed when certain conditions are met. Such generalization
enables blockchain to potentially serve as a computing infrastructure to
facilitate secure and decentralized interactions among any parties without
making high trust assumptions about them.
In this talk, we will discuss
some key characteristics of blockchain and a few promising applications of
blockchain that can facilitate security and trust among multiple parties. Some
examples include applying blockchain to secure software updates for
resource-constrained IoT networks and facilitating fair trading for transactive
energy market.
嘉宾个人简介：
Yuhong
Liu
,
Associate Professor at Department
of Computer Science and Engineering, Santa Clara University, received her B.S.
and M.S. degree from Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications in 2004
and 2007 respectively, and the Ph.D. degree from University of Rhode Island in
2012. She is the recipient of the 2019 Researcher of the Year Award at School
of Engineering, Santa Clara University, and the 2013 University of Rhode Island
Graduate School Excellence in Doctoral Research Award. Her research interests
include trustworthy computing and cyber security of emerging applications, such
as online social media, Internet-of-things and Blockchain. She has published
over 90 papers on prestigious journals and peer reviewed conferences. She has
contributed as an organizing committee member for over 10 international
conferences and a TPC member for over 20 conferences. She is actively
contributing to professional societies including IEEE and Asia-Pacific Signal
and Information Processing Association (APSIPA). She is currently serving as an
IEEE Computer Society Distinguish Visitor (2022-2023), the Chair of IEEE
Computer Society Special Technical Communities (STC) Executive Committee Board
(2022-2023), the IEEE Computer Society Member & Geographic Activities (MGA)
Board Vice Chair for STC, the Chair of the IEEE Computer Society Technical
Meeting Request Committee and the IEEE Computer Society Region 6 Area 4 coordinator.
She is also a member of the Multimedia Security and Forensics (MSF) TC for
APSIPA, Associate Editor of APSIPA Transactions on Signal and Information
Processing, and
an APSIPA Distinguished Lecturer
(2021-2022).
电子与信息工程学院
2023年12月18日

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=510995
