标题：第580条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Security of Edged Deep Neural Networks
电子与信息工程学院　2023/12/7 14:57:00
讲座 嘉宾：
Professor
Chip Hong Chang ,
Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
邀  请 人：
赵晓锦 教授
时     间：
12月20号（周三）上午10.30-11.45
地     点：
致信楼N710
摘要：
The flourishing Internet of Things (IoT)
has rekindled on-premises computing to allow data to be analyzed closer to the
source. Neural architecture search, open-source deep neural network (DNN) model
compilers and commercially available toolkits have evolved to facilitate rapid
development and deployment of Artificial Intelligence (AI) applications. This
“model once, run anywhere” paradigm shift in deep learning computations introduces
new attack surfaces and threat models that are methodologically different from
existing software-based attacks. Model integrity is a primary pillar for AI
trust to ensure that the system delivers and maintains the desirable quality of
service and are free from unauthorized deliberate or inadvertent manipulation
of the system throughout the lifetime of their deployment. A superior and
well-trained DNN classifier is not only an intellectual property (IP) of high
market value but also consists of private and sensitive information.
Unfortunately, existing DNN hardware implementations mainly focus on throughput
and energy efficiency optimization, which can unintentionally introduce
exploitable vulnerabilities. The situation is aggravated by the trend of outsourcing
model training, renting cloud computing platforms, and deploying partially or
fully trained third-party models for AI application development and edge
inference. This talk will present some of our research works on the attacks and
defenses of DNNs.
简介：
Chip Hong Chang
is a Professor at the
School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering of Nanyang Technological
University, Singapore. He held joint appointments as Assistant Chair of Alumni
of the School of EEE from 2008 to 2014, Deputy Director of the Center for High
Performance Embedded Systems from 2000 to 2011, and Program Director of the
Center for Integrated Circuits and Systems from 2003 to 2009. He has coedited
six books, published 13 book chapters, more than 120 international journal
(more than 80 are IEEE) papers and around 200 refereed international conference
papers (mostly IEEE). His current research interests include hardware security,
AI security, biometric security, trustworthy sensing and hardware accelerators
for post-quantum cryptography and edge computational intelligence. He has
delivered more than 60 keynotes, plenary, tutorials and invited seminars. Dr.
Chang was conferred the 2022 VISTA award of excellence in hardware security. He
serves as the Senior Editorial Board member of the IEEE Journal on Emerging and
Selected Topics in Circuits and Systems (JETCAS), Senior Area Editor of the
IEEE Transactions on Information Forensic and Security (TIFS), and Associate
Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems-I (TCAS-I) and IEEE
Transactions on Very Large Scale Integration (TVLSI) Systems. He has held key
appointments in the organizing and technical program committees of more than 80
international conferences (mostly IEEE). He is the 2018-2019 IEEE CASS
Distinguished Lecturer, a member of the International Artificial Intelligence
Industry Alliance (AIIA) World's Top Industry Scientist, a Fellow of the IEEE,
IET and AAIA.
电子与信息工程学院
2023年12月7日
（更新于2023/12/7 15:08:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=510265
