标题：第589条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Writing High Impact Research Articles
电子与信息工程学院　2023/12/1 14:27:00
讲座嘉宾
：
Dr. Y.M. Tang
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
邀请人
：张勇
教授
时 间
：
2023
年
12
月
3
日
上
午
10
:
3
0
地 点
：深圳大学汇星楼
1504
摘要：
In today's academic landscape, the ability to
communicate research effectively is crucial for researchers, academics, and
aspiring authors. The purpose of this seminar is to equip participants with the
knowledge and strategies to write impactful research articles that make a significant
contribution to their respective fields. By the end of this seminar, you will
have a deeper understanding of the key elements involved in crafting
high-impact articles, from selecting a compelling research topic to presenting
results in a clear and concise manner. We will explore strategies for
conducting comprehensive literature reviews, developing robust research
methodologies, and structuring articles to captivate readers. Additionally, we
will discuss the importance of analyzing and interpreting results, as well as
techniques for writing in a clear and engaging style. Whether you are a
seasoned researcher or just starting your academic journey, this seminar will
provide valuable insights to enhance your research writing skills and increase the
impact of your articles. Get ready to embark on a journey of effective research
communication and discover the power of your words!
嘉宾个人简介：
Dr. YM Tang
received his B.Eng. and
M.Phil. from CUHK. He was awarded a Ph.D. degree from the same university.
Currently, he is a Senior Teaching Fellow in the Department of Industrial and
Systems Engineering, PolyU. Dr. Tang is the Lab-in-charge of Integrated Product
Design (IPD) in the department. His research interests include virtual reality
(VR)/ mixed reality (MR), artificial intelligence (AI), blockchain technology,
digital twin, sustainable technology in industry 4.0 and healthcare
applications. Dr. Tang has published over 10 books/ book chapters and over 60
renowned journal articles.
电子与信息工程学院
2023年12月1日

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=509394
