标题：第691条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Image quality assessment of light field image
电子与信息工程学院　2023/10/13 10:28:00
讲座嘉宾：
Dr.
张正宇
法国 INSA RENNES
邀 请 人：田时舜 助理
教授
时  间：
10月16日 14:00-16:00
地  点：
致信楼N723
Author
introduction:
Zhengyu Zhang received the B.E.
degree in electronic and information science and technology from Guangzhou
University, Guangzhou, China, and the M.E. degree in electronics and
communication engineering from Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China, in 2018
and 2021, respectively. He is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree with the
National Institute of Applied Sciences, Rennes, France, and also with the
Institute of Electronics and Digital Technologies Laboratory. His research
interests include image/video quality assessment, visual perception, and deep
learning.
Abstract:
Light Field Image (LFI) has
garnered remarkable interest and fascination due to its burgeoning significance
in immersive applications. Although the abundant information in LFI enables a
more immersive experience, it also poses a great challenge for the quality assessment
of LFI, especially when the reference information is inaccessible. This work is
dedicated to better evaluate the LFI quality in immersive multimedia. It can be
divided into three parts. Firstly, we propose a No-Reference (NR) metric based
on handcrafted features. This metric performs quality assessment by exploiting
the spatio-angular textural variations of the distorted LFI. Then, we propose
three NR metrics using deep-learning-based technologies. The principle of the
first metric DeeBLiF is to divide LFI into multiple 2D patches and evaluate
their quality via a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) model. The overall LFI
quality is obtained by averaging the patch quality. The second metric PVBLiF,
we improve DeeBLiF by utilizing 3D Pseudo Video Block Sequences (PVBSs) and
performing pooling operation according to their saliency and variances. The
third metric ASEM-BLiF designs a novel framework to effectively model the
angular-spatial effect, which addresses the imbalance problem between angular and
spatial information in LFI. In the last part, we will present our understanding
and prospects for future researches on LFI.
电子与信息工程学院
2023年10月13日
（更新于2023/10/13 10:36:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=504714
