标题：第696条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】Defect Detection Using AI Approach for Urban Road Covers
电子与信息工程学院　2023/10/7 11:03:00
讲座嘉宾：
Dr. Y.M. Tang,
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
邀 请 人：
张勇
教授
时  间：
2023
年
10
月
8
日下午
3
:00
地  点：
深圳大学汇星楼
1504
摘要：
In urban areas, road covers are commonly used to
secure large drains, chambers, and box culverts, which require regular
inspections and maintenance. These covers are typically located on main roads
with heavy traffic. However, conducting inspections by opening these road covers
is both costly and causes traffic disruptions. Additionally, the existing
inspection methods are limited due to variations in piping/channels,
configurations, and unknown distances from entry points.
Previous studies have demonstrated that measuring
vibrational signals can effectively detect structural faults from a distance.
By harnessing the latest advancements in artificial intelligence (AI)
technology, it is possible to analyze these signals. The objective of this
project is to conduct a feasibility study on developing an AI algorithm for
inspecting the structural health of road covers on main roads.
The proposed system will utilize state-of-the-art
AI technologies to identify problematic signals originating from road covers
amidst the background noise caused by environmental factors and traffic.
Through the implementation of AI technologies, the system will be capable of
distinguishing problematic road covers from the complex interferences of
environmental and traffic noises. The outcome of this research will be a
non-invasive inspection method that enables the differentiation between normal
and abnormal road covers. This approach provides a cost-effective solution that
minimizes traffic disruptions by eliminating the need to physically open the covers
for inspection.
嘉宾个人简介：
Dr. YM Tang
received his B.Eng. and
M.Phil. from CUHK. He was awarded a Ph.D. degree from the same university.
Currently, he is a Senior Teaching Fellow in the Department of Industrial and
Systems Engineering, PolyU. Dr. Tang is the Lab-in-charge of Integrated Product
Design (IPD) in the department. His research interests include virtual reality
(VR)/ mixed reality (MR), artificial intelligence (AI), blockchain technology,
digital twin, sustainable technology in industry 4.0 and healthcare
applications. Dr. Tang has published over 10 books/ book chapters and over 60
renowned journal articles.
电子与信息工程学院
2023年10月7日
（更新于2023/10/7 15:13:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=504223
