标题：第752条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
学术讲座：Robust Low-Rank Matrix Completion using Truncated...
电子与信息工程学院　2023/2/14 14:57:00
主题
：Robust Low-Rank Matrix Completion using Truncated-Quadratic Loss Function
演讲嘉宾
：Hing Cheung So教授
Department of Electronic Engineering
,
City
University
of
Hong Kong
邀 请 人
：   黄磊 教授
讲座时间
：16号（周四）上午11：00-12：00
地     点
：致信楼N710
Abstract:
Robust matrix completion
refers to recovering a low-rank matrix given a subset of the entries possibly
corrupted by gross errors. It has wide applicability because many real-world
signals can be modeled as low-rank matrices. Based on matrix factorization, we
devise a robust matrix completion approach using the truncated-quadratic loss
function. By exploiting half-quadratic optimization, this non-convex and
non-smooth loss function is transformed into two tractable forms, namely,
additive and multiplicative formulations, and block coordinate descent is then
adopted as their solvers. Numerical simulations and experimental results of
image inpainting and hyperspectral image recovery demonstrate that our
algorithms are superior to the state-of-the-art methods in terms of restoration
accuracy and runtime.
Biography:
Hing
Cheung So
was born in Hong Kong. He received the
B.Eng. degree from the City University of Hong Kong and the Ph.D. degree from
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, both in electronic engineering, in 1990
and 1995, respectively. During 1995–1996, he was a Postdoctoral Fellow with The
Chinese University of Hong Kong. From 1996 to 1999, he was a Research Assistant
Professor with the Department of Electronic Engineering, City University of
Hong Kong, where he is currently a Professor. His research interests include detection
and estimation, fast and adaptive algorithms, multidimensional harmonic
retrieval, robust signal processing, source localization, and sparse
approximation. He has been on the editorial boards of IEEE Signal Processing
Magazine, IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, Signal Processing, and
Digital Signal Processing. He was also Lead Guest Editor for IEEE Journal of
Selected Topics in Signal Processing, special issue on “Advances in
Time/Frequency Modulated Array Signal Processing” in 2017. In addition, he was
an elected member in Signal Processing Theory and Methods Technical Committee
of the IEEE Society.
电子与信息工程学院
2023年2月13日

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=488118
