标题：第837条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
【学术讲座】铂类抗肿瘤药物的可控激活与递送
医学部　2022/8/4 16:45:00
报告题目：
Controllable
activation and delivery of platinum anticancer prodrugs
报告人：朱光宇教授
主持人：王志刚
时间：
2022
年
8
月
9
号
16:30-17
：
30
地点：腾讯会议（
ID
号：
647-882-497
）
报
告人简介：
Dr. Guangyu Zhu is an Associate Professor at
the Department of Chemistry, City University of Hong Kong. Dr. Zhu’s research
interest lies at the interface of chemistry and biology, focusing on anticancer
drug development and mechanism. His current research projects include
development of photoactivatable anticancer prodrugs, synthesis and biological
evaluation of novel metal-based anticancer agents, and development of
cancer-specific nanomedicine to conquer cisplatin resistance. His research work
has been published in Nature series, Chem, JACS, Angew, PNAS, etc. Currently he
is the Editorial Advisory Board member of the Journal of Biological Inorganic
Chemistry and member of Asian Biological Inorganic Chemistry (AsBIC) Steering
Committee.
报告内容：
Despite the broad clinical applications of platinum-based
anticancer drugs including cisplatin, their side effects and resistance issues
have encouraged researchers to look for novel metal-based anticancer complexes.
Non-traditional platinum compounds, especially Pt(IV) complexes, have been
extensively studied, and they hold great promise to be further developed as the
next-generation platinum drugs. Controllable activation of prodrugs within a
tumor is particularly attractive because of their low damage to normal tissue.
In this presentation, I will introduce the design, photoactivation mechanism,
and antitumor activity of visible light-activatable Pt(IV) prodrugs. These
small-molecule prodrugs have controllable activation properties and display
superior antitumor activity both in vitro and in vivo. In addition, our recent
progress in erythrocyte-delivered Pt(IV) prodrug and nanoprodrug for enhanced
circulation will also be introduced. The controllable activation property and
superior antitumor activity of these prodrugs may suggest a practical way to
reduce the adverse effects and conquer drug resistance of traditional platinum
chemotherapy.
（更新于2022/8/6 16:57:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=477722
