标题：第859条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
学术讲座：宁波诺丁汉大学郑晓岚副教授—Employment protection and debt concentrat
经济学院　2022/6/13 9:53:00
讲座题目：
Employment protection and debt
concentration: International evidence
讲座时间：
2022
年
6
月
17
日（周五）
14:00
讲座地点：腾讯会议（会议号：
140-923-854
）
主讲嘉宾：郑晓岚副教授
宁波诺丁汉大学
主讲嘉宾简介：
郑晓岚博士在美国南卡罗莱纳大学获得博士学位，
CFA
持证人。郑晓岚博士的研究兴趣主要集中在资本结构、债务期限、股利政策、资本成本、商业信用、公司治理、银行业、国际金融和腐败、文化对公司财务决策的影响上。她的文章被收录于
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Review of Finance,
Journal of International Business Studies, Journal of Corporate Finance,
Journal of Banking and Finance, and Journal of Business Ethics
等国际一流水平期刊中。
讲座主要内容：
We
examine the effects of variations in employment protections on corporate debt
structure concentration. We rely on a framework of optimal debt concentration
that poses a trade-off between the benefits of reducing financial distress
costs and the resulting credit constraints (credit constraint concerns) or
costs of inducing strategic default (strategic concerns). We test the divergent
predictions from two concerns using an international sample of 118,131 firm-year
observations from 40 countries over the 2001-2018 period. We find that when
employment protection is stronger firms use fewer debt types suggesting credit
constraint concerns outweigh strategic concerns in choosing debt structure
concentration. Our findings are robust to sensitivity tests using alternative
measurements for debt concentration and employment protection legislation,
employment protection reform, country-level regressions, additional omitted
variables, and different subsamples. The positive relationship between
employment protection and debt concentration is more pronounced in the most
strongly influenced firms, including those with greater labor intensity and
turnover, those in countries with greater union density, and those with better
law and order. Additional analysis shows stronger effects of employment protection
on debt concentration in financially constrained firms, firms with greater
information asymmetry, and firms in the countries where larger benefits from
efficient coordination of concentrated debt derives.
欢
迎广大师生参加！
经济学院
2022年6月13日
（更新于2022/6/16 9:28:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=473935
