标题：第865条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
学术讲座：预设时间控制及其应用
机电与控制工程学院　2022/6/10 19:44:00
报告题目
: Predefined-Time Convergence and its Application to Stabilization
of Permanent-Magnet Synchronous Motor
报告人
:  Michael V. Basin, Academician
of Mexican Academy of Sciences, Autonomous University of Nuevo Leon, Mexico
报告地点：致信楼机电与控制工程学院
s630
报告时间：
2022
年
6
月
12
日
9:30-10:30
报告邀请人：崔玉康
报告内容
:
This
talk presents two predefined-time convergent continuous control algorithms to
stabilize a permanent-magnet synchronous motor system, using exponential and
linear time-varying control input terms. The designed control laws are free from
the restrictions of exponential control growth and exact initial conditions
knowledge. These are the first predefined-time convergent continuous control
algorithms applied to stabilization of a permanent-magnet synchronous motor
system with both deterministic and stochastic disturbances, which enable one to
a priori set the predefined convergence time even in presence of various
disturbances of different nature. Numerical simulations are provided for a
permanent-magnet synchronous motor system to validate the obtained theoretical
results in each of the three considered cases.
报告人简历
:
Michael
V. Basin (SM' 07, M' 95) received his Ph.D. degree in Physical and Mathematical
Sciences with major in Automatic Control and System Analysis from the Moscow
Aviation University (MAI) in 1992. He is currently Full Professor with the
Autonomous University of Nuevo Leon, Mexico. Dr. Basin published more than 400
research papers in international referred journals and conference proceedings.
His works are cited more than 6500 times (h index = 44). He has served as the
Editor-in-Chief of Journal of The Franklin Institute, the Senior Editor of
IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics, an Associate Editor of different
Journals. Dr. Basin was awarded a title of Highly Cited Researcher by Thomson
Reuters and listed in “100 000 Leading Scientists in the World”; he is a
regular member of the Mexican Academy of Sciences. His research interests
include optimal filtering and control problems, stochastic systems, time-delay
systems, identification, sliding mode control and variable structure systems,
applications to mechatronic and transportation systems.
欢迎感兴趣的师生参加！
（更新于2022/6/10 19:47:00）

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=473828
