标题：第909条公告

正文：
关闭窗口
｜
打印张贴版
学术讲座（三）：Electrifying CO2 into Fuels and Chemicals
化学与环境工程学院　2022/3/22 17:54:00
题目一：
Electrifying CO
2
into Fuels and Chemicals
题目二：
Nanostructured Materials for CO
2
reduction
主讲人：
Dr. Haotian Wang
时间：
3
月
24
日上午
10:30
地点：腾讯会议（
ID
：
553 402 394
）
报告人简介：
Dr. Haotian Wang is currently a William
Marsh Rice Trustee Chair Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemical and
Biomolecular Engineering at Rice University. He obtained his PhD degree in the
Department of Applied Physics at Stanford University in 2016 and his Bachelor
of Science in Physics at the University of Science and Technology of China in
2011. In 2016 he received the Rowland Fellowship and began his independent
research career at Harvard as a principal investigator. He was awarded the 2021
Sloan Fellow, 2020 Packard Fellow, 2019 CIFAR Azrieli Global Scholar, 2019
Forbes 30 Under 30, highly cited researchers, etc. He serves as the editorial
board of Communications Materials. His research group has been focused on
developing novel nanomaterials for energy and environmental applications
including energy storage, chemical/fuel generation, water treatment, etc.
讲座摘要：
Electrochemical CO
2
reduction,
with the energy input from renewable electricity, provides a green and
alternative route for the generation of chemicals and fuels. However, its
practice is currently challenged at two systematical levels: the lack of selective
electrocatalysts to combat the strong completion from water reduction, and the
lack of novel reactors for large-scale reaction rates and efficient product
separation. In this talk, I will introduce the rational design of both
catalytic materials and reactors towards practical CO
2
reduction
performances. By dispersing transition metals into isolated single atoms with
electronic structures significantly different from their bulk counterparts, we
can dramatically suppress the competing hydrogen evolution and deliver an
ultra-high CO
2
reduction selectivity of more than 95% under ambient
conditions in water. Scaled-up synthesis and efficient reactors demonstrated
the potential for practical applications. Furthermore, by designing a novel
solid electrolyte reactor, we successfully demonstrated a continuous generation
of pure liquid fuel solutions via CO
2
reduction. This technology
eliminates the product separation process required in traditional CO
2
reduction electrolyzers, opening up its practical applications in the future.
欢迎有兴趣的师生参加！

超链接：
- javascript:window.close()
- https://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/print.asp?id=468199
